Add faq, intro, deploy, secure and reverse proxy for TiDB Dashboard (#2737)
pingcap/docs: dashboard/dashboard-ops-security.md

---

> title: Improve TiDB Dashboard Security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Secure TiDB Dashboard
```

summary: Learn how to improve the security of TiDB Dashboard.
category: how-to
---

> # Improve TiDB Dashboard Security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Secure TiDB Dashboard
```

Although you need to sign into TiDB Dashboard before accessing it, TiDB Dashboard is designed to be accessed by trusted user entities by default. When you want to provide TiDB Dashboard to external network users or untrusted users for access, take the following measures to avoid security vulnerabilities.

## Set a strong password for TiDB `root` user

> The account system of TiDB Dashboard is consistent with that of TiDB SQL users. By default, TiDB's `root` user has no password, so accessing TiDB Dashboard does not require password authentication, which will give the malicious visitor great privileges, including executing privileged SQL statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The account system of TiDB Dashboard is consistent with that of TiDB SQL users. By default, TiDB's `root` user has no password, so accessing TiDB Dashboard does not require password authentication, which will give the malicious visitor high privileges, including executing privileged SQL statements.
```

It is recommended that you set a strong password for TiDB `root` user. See [TiDB User Account Management](/user-account-management.md) for details.

## Use a firewall to block untrusted access

TiDB Dashboard provides services through the PD client port, which defaults to <http://IP:2379/dashboard/>. Although TiDB Dashboard requires identity authentication, other privileged interfaces (such as <http://IP:2379/pd/api/v1/members>) in PD carried on the PD client port do not require identity authentication and can perform privileged operations. Therefore, exposing the PD client port directly to the external network is extremely risky.

It is recommended that you take the following measures:

+ Use a firewall to prohibit a component from accessing **any** client port of the PD component via the external network or untrusted network.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > TiDB, TiKV, and other components need to communicate with the PD component through the PD client port, so do not block access to the internal network between components. Otherwise, the cluster will become unavailable.

> + See [Use TiDB Dashboard through Reverse Proxy](/dashboard/dashboard-ops-reverse-proxy.md) to learn how to configure the reverse proxy to safely provide the TiDB Dashboard service on another port to the external network.

Reviewer: Use TiDB Dashboard behind a Reverse Proxy

### How to open access to TiDB Dashboard port when deploying multiple PD instances

> **Warning:**
>
> This section describes an unsafe access solution, which is for the test environment only. **DO NOT** use this solution in the production environment.

In the test environment, you might need to configure the firewall to open the TiDB Dashboard port for external access.

When multiple PD instances are deployed, only one of the PD instances actually runs TiDB Dashboard, and browser redirection occurs when you access other PD instances. Therefore, you need to ensure that the firewall is configured with the correct IP address. For details of this mechanism, see [Deployment with multiple PD instances](/dashboard/dashboard-ops-deploy.md#deployment-with-multiple-pd-instances).

> When using the TiUP deployment tool, you can use the following command to view the address of the PD instance that actually runs TiDB Dashboard (replace `CLUSTER_NAME` with the cluster name):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the TiUP deployment tool, you can view the address of the PD instance that actually runs TiDB Dashboard by running the following command (replace `CLUSTER_NAME` with the cluster name):
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
tiup cluster display CLUSTER_NAME --dashboard
```

The output is the actual TiDB Dashboard address.

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is available only in the later version of the `tiup cluster` deployment tool (v1.0.3 or later). You can upgrade `tiup cluster` with the following commands:
>
> {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
>
> ```bash
> tiup update --self
> tiup update cluster --force
> ```

The following is a sample output:

```bash
http://192.168.0.123:2379/dashboard/
```

In this example, the firewall needs to be configured with inbound access for the `2379` port of the `192.168.0.123` open IP, and the TiDB Dashboard is accessed via <http://192.168.0.123:2379/dashboard/>.

## Reverse proxy only for TiDB Dashboard

> As mentioned in [Use a firewall to block untrusted access](#use-a-firewall-to-block-untrusted access), the services provided under the PD client port include not only TiDB Dashboard (located at <http://IP:2379/dashboard/>), but also other privileged interfaces in PD (such as <http://IP:2379/pd/api/v1/members>). Therefore, when using a reverse proxy to provide TiDB Dashboard to the external network, ensure that the services **ONLY** with the `/dashboard` prefix are provided (**NOT** all services under the port) to avoid that the external network can access the privileged interface in PD through the reverse proxy .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned in [Use a firewall to block untrusted access](#use-a-firewall-to-block-untrusted access), the services provided under the PD client port include not only TiDB Dashboard (located at <http://IP:2379/dashboard/>), but also other privileged interfaces in PD (such as <http://IP:2379/pd/api/v1/members>). Therefore, when using a reverse proxy to provide TiDB Dashboard to the external network, ensure that the services **ONLY** with the `/dashboard` prefix are provided (**NOT** all services under the port) to avoid that the external network can access the privileged interface in PD through the reverse proxy.
```

> It is recommended that you see [Use TiDB Dashboard through Reverse Proxy](/dashboard/dashboard-ops-reverse-proxy.md) to learn a safe and recommended reverse proxy configuration.

Reviewer: Use TiDB Dashboard behind a Reverse Proxy
